New rule: Link is descriptive (5effbb) (#555)
act-rules/act-rules.github.io: _rules/descriptive-link-5effbb.md

---
id: 5effbb
name: Link in context is descriptive
rule_type: atomic
description: | 
 This rule checks that all links in their context describe their purpose.
accessibility_requirements: 
  wcag20:2.4.4: # Link Purpose (In Context) 
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: satisfied
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
  - Language
authors:
  - Carlos Duarte
  - Marie Trudelle 
  - Ramit Garg
---

## Applicability

> This rule applies to any HTML or SVG element with the [semantic role](#semantic-role) of [`link`](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/#link) or a role that inherits from the `link` role, that is [included in the accessibility tree](#included-in-the-accessibility-tree) and has an [accessible-name](#accessible-name) that does not only consist of [whitespace](#whitespace).

Reviewer: "[accessible-name]" => "[accessible name]"

> 

Reviewer 2: Why are you not looking at whitespaces?  Are you planing to do a different rule for this?

Author: Links should have accessible names. If they don't they will fail https://act-rules.github.io/rules/c487ae

> ## Expectation

Reviewer 3: Consider adding a note to say something about what is sufficient description of the purpose of the link. Such as: "Examples of sufficient description would be the name of the linked document or web application. However, this is not an absolute requirement, as other things may also describe the purpose of the link."

> The [visible](#visible) [text content](#text-content) of the target element, together with its [programmatically determined link context](#programmatically-determined-context) describe the purpose of the link.

Reviewer: https://act-rules.github.io/glossary/#visible-text-content ?

> The [visible](#visible) [text content](#text-content) of the target element, together with its [programmatically determined link context](#programmatically-determined-context) describe the purpose of the link.

Author: I'm looking at visible link text plus accessible name (programmatically determined link), per the SC. I think Jean-Yves' suggestion solves the issue.

  </tr>
</table>
```

#### Passed Example 9

The accessible name describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<p id="instructions">Click on the arrow to go to the main content.</p>
<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" x="0" y="0">
  <a href="#main" aria-labelledby="instructions">
    <path
      style="fill:#1E201D;"
      d="M21.205,5.007c-0.429-0.444-1.143-0.444-1.587,0c-0.429,0.429-0.429,1.143,0,1.571l8.047,8.047H1.111
			C0.492,14.626,0,15.118,0,15.737c0,0.619,0.492,1.127,1.111,1.127h26.554l-8.047,8.032c-0.429,0.444-0.429,1.159,0,1.587
			c0.444,0.444,1.159,0.444,1.587,0l9.952-9.952c0.444-0.429,0.444-1.143,0-1.571L21.205,5.007z"
    />
  </a>
</svg>

<main>
  <p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

The link text, together with the absence of programmatically determined link context, does not describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<a href="#desc">More</a>

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages.</p>
```

#### Failed Example 2

The accessible name without any further programmatically determined link context, does not describe the purpose of the link.

```html

> <a href="#main" aria-label="Go"></a>

Reviewer: Add some text inside the link (`<a>Go</a>`).

<main>
 <p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

#### Failed Example 3

The link text, together with the absence of programmatically determined link context, does not describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<div role="link" tabindex="0" onclick="document.location+='#main';return false;">More</div>

<main>
 <p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

#### Failed Example 4

The accessible name without any further programmatically determined link context, does not describe the purpose of the link.

```html

> <div role="link" tabindex="0" aria-labelledby="id1" onclick="document.location+='#main';return false;"></div>

Reviewer: Add text in the link (`<div>Go</div>`).

- [ARIA8: Using aria-label for link purpose](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/aria/ARIA8)
- [H77: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with its enclosing list item](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H77)
- [H78: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with its enclosing paragraph](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H78)
- [H79: Identifying the purpose of a link in a data table using the link text combined with its enclosing table cell and associated table header cells](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H79)
- [H81: Identifying the purpose of a link in a nested list using link text combined with the parent list item under which the list is nested](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H81)

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

The link text describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<a href="#desc">See the description of this product</a> 

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages</p>
```

#### Passed Example 2

The accessible name describes the purpose of the link.

```html

> <a href="#main" aria-label="Go to the main content of the page"></a>

Reviewer: I'm also a bit worried about these examples (there's a few of them) where the link is essentially empty (nothing inside the `a` element).

<main>
 <p id="main">This is the main content</p>
</main>
```

#### Passed Example 3

The link text together with its context describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<p>To see the description of this product <a href="#desc">click here</a></p>

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages</p>
```

#### Passed Example 4

Both the link text together with its context and the accessible name describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<p><a href="#" aria-label="Place item in cart">Place item</a><span aria-hidden="true"> in shopping cart</span></p>
```

#### Passed Example 5

The accessible name describes the purpose of the link.

```html

> <div role="link" aria-label="Skip to main content" onclick="document.location+='#main';return false;"></div>

Reviewer 4: Also: Sorry I did not catch this the first time around. ><

<main>
 <p id="main">This is the main content</p>
</main>
```

#### Passed Example 6

The link text describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<span role="link" onclick="document.location+='#desc';return false;">See description of the product</span>

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages</p>
```

#### Passed Example 7

The context provided by the list and the link text describe the purpose of the links.

```html
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/files/4300/4300-h/4300-h.htm">Ulysses</a></li>

>   <li><a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/4300.epub.images?session_id=04cd710372888de8d8d322215cdfe8ce5b0f8d73">EPUB format</a></li>

Reviewer: "EPUB format" => "EPUB" 
should be enough (and keep in sync with next example).

```html
<table>
  <tr>
    <th colspan="3">Ulysses</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/files/4300/4300-h/4300-h.htm">HTML</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/4300.epub.images?session_id=04cd710372888de8d8d322215cdfe8ce5b0f8d73">EPUB</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/files/4300/4300-0.txt">Plain text</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>
```

#### Passed Example 9

The accessible name describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<p id="instructions">Click on the arrow to go to the main content</p>
<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" x="0" y="0">
  <a href="#main" aria-labelledby="instructions">
    <path
      style="fill:#1E201D;"
      d="M21.205,5.007c-0.429-0.444-1.143-0.444-1.587,0c-0.429,0.429-0.429,1.143,0,1.571l8.047,8.047H1.111
			C0.492,14.626,0,15.118,0,15.737c0,0.619,0.492,1.127,1.111,1.127h26.554l-8.047,8.032c-0.429,0.444-0.429,1.159,0,1.587
			c0.444,0.444,1.159,0.444,1.587,0l9.952-9.952c0.444-0.429,0.444-1.143,0-1.571L21.205,5.007z"
    />
  </a>
</svg>

<main>
  <p id="main">This is the main content</p>
</main>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

> The link text, together with the absence of programatically determined link context, does not describe the purpose of the link.

Reviewer: "programatically" => "progra**mm**atically" (2 'm') (several times).

---
id: 5effbb
name: Link in context is descriptive
rule_type: atomic
description: |
  This rule checks that all links in their context describe their purpose.
accessibility_requirements:
  wcag20:2.4.4: # Link Purpose (In Context)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: satisfied
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
  - Language
authors:
  - Carlos Duarte
  - Marie Trudelle
  - Ramit Garg
htmlHintIgnore:
  # https://www.npmjs.com/package/htmlhint
  # (used with `npm test` to ensure validity of code snippets)
  - 'alt-require'
---

## Applicability

> This rule applies to any HTML or SVG element with the [semantic role](#semantic-role) of [`link`](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/#link) or a role that inherits from the `link` role, that is [included in the accessibility tree](#included-in-the-accessibility-tree) and has an [accessible name](#accessible-name) that does not only consist of [whitespace](#whitespace).

Reviewer: Actually, with three clauses, two of them including a nested subordinate clause, it might be time to move to a bullet list:
> This rule applies to any element which
> - has a role of link or that blabla; and
> - is in the AT; and
> - has a name that blabla.

- [H24: Providing text alternatives for the area elements of image maps](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H24)
- [G53: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with the text of the enclosing sentence](https://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20161007/G53)
- [ARIA7: Using aria-labelledby for link purpose](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/aria/ARIA7)
- [ARIA8: Using aria-label for link purpose](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/aria/ARIA8)
- [H77: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with its enclosing list item](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H77)
- [H78: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with its enclosing paragraph](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H78)
- [H79: Identifying the purpose of a link in a data table using the link text combined with its enclosing table cell and associated table header cells](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H79)
- [H81: Identifying the purpose of a link in a nested list using link text combined with the parent list item under which the list is nested](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H81)

## Test Cases

> ### Passed

Reviewer 5: I would like to see more example of programatic context that passes, as well as examples of things that **aren't** programatic context and so will fail. That's really where the rubber meets the road, defining what is and isn't programatic context.

Author: Added examples where the non-programmatic context is on a different paragraph, outside the list or in different table cells.

#### Passed Example 1

The link text describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<a href="#desc">See the description of this product.</a>

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 2

The accessible name describes the purpose of the link.

```html

> <a href="#main" aria-label="Go to the main content of the page">Go</a>

Author: I would argue it passes SC 2.4.4 because of the programmatically determined link context, which in this example comes from the accessible name. 
There is no assumption of equivalence between link text and accessible name.

</main>
```

#### Passed Example 3

The link text together with its context describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<p>To see the description of this product <a href="#desc">click here</a>.</p>

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 4

Both the link text together with its context and the accessible name describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<p><a href="#" aria-label="Place item in cart">Place item</a><span aria-hidden="true"> in shopping cart.</span></p>
```

#### Passed Example 5

The accessible name describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<div role="link" tabindex="0" aria-label="Skip to main content" onclick="document.location+='#main';return false;">
	Skip
</div>

<main>
	<p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

#### Passed Example 6

The link text describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<span role="link" tabindex="0" onclick="document.location+='#desc';return false;">See description of the product.</span>

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 7

The context provided by the list and the link text describe the purpose of the links.

```html
<ul>

> 	<li><a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/files/4300/4300-h/4300-h.htm">Ulysses</a></li>

Reviewer 5: I don't think one list item gives context to another list item. According to [H81](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H81.html) you can do it with nested lists, but it seems to me that the reason it is nested is important here. Makes sense too, because with AT you can exit into and out of lists to get to the higher level list item for context.

	<li>
		<a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/4300.epub.images?session_id=04cd710372888de8d8d322215cdfe8ce5b0f8d73"
			>EPUB</a
		>
	</li>
	<li><a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/files/4300/4300-0.txt">Plain text</a></li>
</ul>
```

#### Passed Example 8

The context provided by the table header and the link text describe the purpose of the links.

```html
<table>
	<tr>
		<th colspan="3">Ulysses</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>

> 		<td><a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/files/4300/4300-h/4300-h.htm">HTML</a></td>

Author: Project Gutenberg has been founded in 1971 by the inventor of ebooks. It would be really sad if they went out of business. I believe the urls for the resources are stable. But let me know if you prefer, I can copy the books as test assets since they are free.

	</tr>
</table>
```

#### Passed Example 9

The accessible name describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<p id="instructions">Click on the arrow to go to the main content.</p>
<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" x="0" y="0">
	<a href="#main" aria-labelledby="instructions">
		<path
			style="fill:#1E201D;"
			d="M21.205,5.007c-0.429-0.444-1.143-0.444-1.587,0c-0.429,0.429-0.429,1.143,0,1.571l8.047,8.047H1.111
			C0.492,14.626,0,15.118,0,15.737c0,0.619,0.492,1.127,1.111,1.127h26.554l-8.047,8.032c-0.429,0.444-0.429,1.159,0,1.587
			c0.444,0.444,1.159,0.444,1.587,0l9.952-9.952c0.444-0.429,0.444-1.143,0-1.571L21.205,5.007z"
		/>
	</a>
</svg>

<main>
	<p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

The link text, together with the absence of programmatically determined link context, does not describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<a href="#desc">More</a>

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages.</p>
```

#### Failed Example 2

The accessible name without any further programmatically determined link context, does not describe the purpose of the link.

```html

> <a href="#main" aria-label="Go">Go</a>

Reviewer 5: Aria-label is unnecessary here.

Author: You are correct. And that makes this example equal to the previous one, so I'm removing it.

<main>
	<p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

#### Failed Example 3

The link text, together with the absence of programmatically determined link context, does not describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<div role="link" tabindex="0" onclick="document.location+='#main';return false;">More</div>

<main>
	<p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

> #### Failed Example 4

Reviewer 5: This test is unnecessary. We don't have to test that someone knows how to compute the accessible name. That's not what this rule is about.

The accessible name without any further programmatically determined link context, does not describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<div role="link" tabindex="0" aria-labelledby="id1" onclick="document.location+='#main';return false;">Go</div>
<div id="id1">Go</div>

<main>
	<p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

#### Failed Example 5

The accessible name without any further programmatically determined link context, does not describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" x="0" y="0">

> 	<a href="#main" aria-label="Go">

Reviewer 5: As above, aria-label seems unnecessary here.

Author: Correct. But I'll leave this one given that it is a link inside an svg element

---
id: 5effbb
name: Link in context is descriptive
rule_type: atomic
description: |
  This rule checks that the accessible name of a link together with its context describe its purpose.
accessibility_requirements:
  wcag20:2.4.4: # Link Purpose (In Context)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied

>     passed: satisfied

Reviewer 4: I don´t think this rule satisfies.

This rule together with https://act-rules.github.io/rules/c487ae does satisfy. But currently a link can have an empty accessible name and be marked inapplicable while it would fail SC 2.4.4.

Either this rule doesn't satisfy completely or this rule needs an assumption that all links have a non-empty accessible link. Which I don't think is a good assumption because a whole rule is written to combat it.

Author: @ShadowBB Agreed. I'll update accordingly.

>     passed: further testing needed

Reviewer 5: If you add an assumption that all links have the semantic role of link, you could say that passing this rule satisfies the SC. Not sure if that's what you want, but it wouldn't be unreasonable I think.

>     inapplicable: further testing needed

Reviewer: I'm wondering if this rule should also map to 2.4.9 It is not clear what we should do in such case (one SC is a subset of another).
More discussion on the topic: https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/pull/833#discussion_r351650002

Author: I see how this works for fail examples of 2.4.4 (they also fail 2.4.9). But what about passing examples of 2.4.4 that fail 2.4.9? It would require a manual interpretation of the result of the rule if you are looking at SC 2.4.9 specifically.
Having it as two rules, each dedicated to a specific SC solves that "ambiguity"

Reviewer: As usual, the important is the fail-on-fail relationship.
- Failing this rule fails both 2.4.4 and 2.4.9
- Passing this rule requires further testing for 2.4.9 (and passes 2.4.4 if we assume that all links have a role of `link`).

This is perfectly fine in term of rule design and this is what happen with most rules (passing the rule requires further testing).

I agree that this does collide with our goal that "passed examples must pass the SC"… 🤔

Reviewer: I think this rule needs the mapping to 2.4.9
Failing this rule also fails 2.4.9 (if the link in context is not descriptive, then the link alone is not descriptive); this is a consequence of "failing 2.4.4 also fails 2.4.9 which is more precise".

As per [ACT Rules Format](https://www.w3.org/TR/act-rules-format/#accessibility-requirements-mapping):
> the rule must list all accessibility requirements from those documents that are not satisfied when one or more of the outcomes of the rule is failed. 

So, the rule **must** list both 2.4.4 and 2.4.9 as accessibility requirements.

Reviewer 5: Posted this in the contrast rule too. I don't think we need to worry about the passed examples passing 2.4.9 here, as long as they all pass 2.4.4. I don't think there's a way around it for these rules where the level AAA one is a subset of the level A variant.

  - CSS Styling
  - Language
acknowledgements:
  authors:
    - Carlos Duarte
    - Marie Trudelle
    - Ramit Garg
---

## Applicability

This rule applies to any HTML or SVG element which

- has the [semantic role][] of ['link'][link] or a [semantic role][] that inherits from the ['link'][link] role; and
- is [included in the accessibility tree][]; and
- has a non-empty ("") [accessible name][].

## Expectation

The [accessible name][] of each target element together with its [programmatically determined link context][] describe the purpose of the link.

## Assumptions

- This rule assumes that the purpose of the link is not ambiguous to users in general when seen in context on the web page, which is the exception mentioned in success criterion [2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/link-purpose-in-context.html). If the link is ambiguous to users in general, users of assistive technologies are not at a disadvantage when viewing the link out of context which makes it more of a general user experience concern than an accessibility issue.
- This rule assumes that all elements with the [semantic role][] of ['link'][link] are used as links.

> - This rule assumes that all links have the [semantic role][] of ['link'][link].

Reviewer: I don't think we need that last assumption. If there is a link which does not have the correct semantic role, the rule is going to ignore it and pass/be inapplicable but that's fine.

The previous assumption is needed because `<div role="link">Foo</div>` fails the rule but not the SC. This assumption is not needed because `<a href="contact.html" role="none">Bar</a>` fails the SC but not the rule; but this is not a problem.

- [H78: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with its enclosing paragraph](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H78)
- [H79: Identifying the purpose of a link in a data table using the link text combined with its enclosing table cell and associated table header cells](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H79)
- [H81: Identifying the purpose of a link in a nested list using link text combined with the parent list item under which the list is nested](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H81)

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

The [accessible name][] (from the link's text) describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<a href="#desc">See the description of this product.</a>

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 2

The [accessible name][] describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<a href="#main"><img src="/test-assets/5effbb/main.png" alt="Go to the main content"/></a>

<main>
	<p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

#### Passed Example 3

> The [accessible name][] (from the link's text) together with its [programmatically determined link context][] available from the text in the same sentence, describe the purpose of the link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [accessible name][] (from the link's text), together with its [programmatically determined link context][] (available from the text in the closest `p` ancestor), describes the purpose of the link.
```

```html

> <p>To see the description of this product <a href="#desc">click here</a>.</p>

Reviewer: Could we make that example with a link text which is not just "click here"? Given that these generic link texts ("click here", "read more", …) are usually frowned upon…

Maybe 
```suggestion
<p>See the description of <a href="#desc">this product</a>.</p>
```

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 4

The [accessible name][] (from the link's text) describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<span role="link" tabindex="0" onclick="document.location+='#desc'">See description of the product.</span>

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 5

> The [programmatically determined link context][] provided by the list and the [accessible name][] (from the link's text) describe the purpose of the links.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [programmatically determined link context][] (provided by the ancestor with a role of `listitem` and text "Ulysses") and the [accessible name][] (from the link's text) describe the purpose of the links.
```

```html
<ul>
	<li>
		Ulysses
		<ul>
			<li><a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/files/4300/4300-h/4300-h.htm"> HTML </a></li>
			<li>
				<a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/4300.epub.images?session_id=04cd710372888de8d8d322215cdfe8ce5b0f8d73">
					EPUB
				</a>
			</li>
			<li><a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/files/4300/4300-0.txt"> Plain text </a></li>
		</ul>
	</li>
</ul>
```

#### Passed Example 6

> The context provided by the table header and the [accessible name][] (from the link's text) describe the purpose of the links.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [programmatically determined context][] (provided by the table header [assigned](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/tables.html#algorithm-for-assigning-header-cells) to the cell containing the link) and the [accessible name][] (from the link's text) describe the purpose of the links.
```

```html
<table>
	<tr>
		<th colspan="3">Ulysses</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/files/4300/4300-h/4300-h.htm">HTML</a></td>
		<td>
			<a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/4300.epub.images?session_id=04cd710372888de8d8d322215cdfe8ce5b0f8d73"
				>EPUB</a
			>
		</td>
		<td><a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/files/4300/4300-0.txt">Plain text</a></td>
	</tr>
</table>
```

#### Passed Example 7

The [accessible name][] describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<p id="instructions">Click on the arrow to go to the main content.</p>
<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" x="0" y="0">
	<a href="#main" aria-labelledby="instructions">
		<path
			style="fill:#1E201D;"
			d="M21.205,5.007c-0.429-0.444-1.143-0.444-1.587,0c-0.429,0.429-0.429,1.143,0,1.571l8.047,8.047H1.111
			C0.492,14.626,0,15.118,0,15.737c0,0.619,0.492,1.127,1.111,1.127h26.554l-8.047,8.032c-0.429,0.444-0.429,1.159,0,1.587
			c0.444,0.444,1.159,0.444,1.587,0l9.952-9.952c0.444-0.429,0.444-1.143,0-1.571L21.205,5.007z"
		/>
	</a>
</svg>

<main>
	<p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

> 

Reviewer: To cover the def of programmatically determined link context, you need to add passed examples with:
- context being in the same cell
- `aria-describedby` attribute.

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

The [accessible name][] (from the link's text), together with the absence of [programmatically determined link context][], does not describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<a href="#desc">More</a>

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages.</p>
```

#### Failed Example 2

The [accessible name][] (from the link's text), together with the absence of [programmatically determined link context][], does not describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<div role="link" tabindex="0" onclick="document.location+='#main'">More</div>

<main>
	<p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

#### Failed Example 3

The [accessible name][] (from the link's text), together with the absence of [programmatically determined link context][], does not describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" x="0" y="0">
	<a href="#main">
		<text x="20" y="20">
			Go
		</text>
	</a>
</svg>

<main>
	<p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

#### Failed Example 4

> The [accessible name][] (from the link's text) does not describe the purpose of the link. The other information available on the page is not [programmatically determined link context][] because it is on a different paragraph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [accessible name][] (from the link's text) does not describe the purpose of the link. The other information available on the page is not [programmatically determined link context][] because it is in a different `p` element.
```

```html
<p style="font-weight: bold">Ulysses</p>
<ul>
	<li><a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/files/4300/4300-h/4300-h.htm"> HTML </a></li>
	<li>
		<a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/4300.epub.images?session_id=04cd710372888de8d8d322215cdfe8ce5b0f8d73">
			EPUB
		</a>
	</li>
	<li><a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/files/4300/4300-0.txt"> Plain text </a></li>
</ul>
```

#### Failed Example 6

The [accessible name][] (from the link's text) does not describe the purpose of the link. The other information available on the page is not [programmatically determined link context][] because it not available on the same cell of the link or in a header cell for that cell.

```html
<table>
	<tr>
		<th colspan="3">Books</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Ulysses</td>
		<td><a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/files/4300/4300-h/4300-h.htm">Download</a></td>
		<td>1.61MB</td>
	</tr>
</table>
```

### Inapplicable

#### Inapplicable Example 1

An `a` element with its [semantic role][] changed from `link` to another role.

```html

> <a href="http://www.w3.org/WAI" role="button">Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)</a>

Reviewer: That's typically breaking the assumption "all link have a role of link", and I don't think we should have example that go against assumptions. In that case, I think the assumption should go away.

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

The [accessible name][] (from the link's text) describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<a href="#desc">See the description of this product.</a>

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 2

The [accessible name][] describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<a href="#main"><img src="/test-assets/5effbb/main.png" alt="Go to the main content"/></a>

<main>
	<p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

#### Passed Example 3

The [accessible name][] (from the link's text) together with its [programmatically determined link context][] available from the text in the same sentence, describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<p>To see the description of this product <a href="#desc">click here</a>.</p>

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 4

The [accessible name][] (from the link's text) describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<span role="link" tabindex="0" onclick="document.location+='#desc'">See description of the product.</span>

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 5

> The [programmatically determined link context][] provided by the `aria-describedby` attribute and the [accessible name][] (from the link's text) describe the purpose of the links.

Reviewer 5: Apologies, I don't think I made my point clear. I think the previous version of this, where a parent `li` was used as context, was correct. That needs to pass. It just doesn't the way this is now formulated.

Author: OK. Reverted the example. And updated the definition to include the assumption that HTML is used according to spec.

---
id: 5effbb
name: Link in context is descriptive
rule_type: atomic
description: |
  This rule checks that all links in their context describe their purpose.
accessibility_requirements:
  wcag20:2.4.4: # Link Purpose (In Context)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
  - Language
acknowledgements:
  authors:
    - Carlos Duarte
    - Marie Trudelle
    - Ramit Garg
---

## Applicability

This rule applies to any HTML or SVG element which

- has the [semantic role][] of ['link'][link] or a [semantic role][] that inherits from the ['link'][link] role; and
- is [included in the accessibility tree][]; and
- has a non-empty ("") [accessible name][].

## Expectation 1

> The [visible text content][] of each target element together with its [programmatically determined link context][] describe the purpose of the link.

Reviewer 5: This rule is making an assumption that there are two types of link texts, and that both of them have to pass the SC. There is nothing about this in the success criterion or the understanding document, so I'm not all too sure this is accurate. You also haven't addressed my previous comment about visible text content not including images.

My suggestion, drop expectation 1. I don't think there's a way to have it make sense. I get that interpreting "link text" as "the accessible name of a link" is somewhat of a stretch, but I don't think there's anything else you can do that makes more sense than that.

Author: I'm okay with that. With links having their accessible name calculated from content this should be a good enough approximation.

Reviewer: I'm having mixed feeling about that based on techniques [ARIA7](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/aria/ARIA7) and [ARIA8](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/aria/ARIA8) (both used to pass 2.4.4).

---
ARIA8 has an example with description saying (emphasise mine):
> In some situations, designers may choose to lessen the visual appearance of links on a page by using shorter, repeated _link text_ such as "read more".

and passing example 
```html
<a href="taxhike.html" aria-label="Read more about Seminole tax hike">[Read more...]</a>
```

I do understand that as "link text" being the "name from content" (in that case, "[Read more…]") and the `aria-label` being part of the context.

On the other hand, this is also a sufficient technique for 2.4.9 where context is not taken into account which lead to thing that the "link text" **is** the accessible name (as suggested by @WilcoFiers). This is further supported by the fact that the WCAG def of programatically determined link content does not refer to accessible name…

😕 

---
Same phenomenon goes for ARIA7 where the example description says:
> This example will mean that the link text as shown on screen is then used as the start of the accessible name for the link.

for
```html
<h2 id="headline">Storms hit east coast</h2>

<p>Torrential rain and gale force winds have struck the east coast, causing flooding in many coastal towns.
<a id="p123" href="news.html" aria-labelledby="p123 headline">Read more...</a></p>
```

The description quite clearly separate the "link text" from the accessible name and uses the name from content as "link text"

ARIA7 further says:
> The specified behavior of aria-labelledby is that the associated label text is announced instead of the link text (not in addition to the link text). When the link text itself should be included in the label text, the ID of the link should be referenced as well in the string of IDs forming the value of the aria-labelledby attribute.

which quite strongly pushes for "link text" **not** being the accessible name.

But at the same time, the second example of ARIA7 is called "Concatenating link text from multiple sources" which hints that the "link text" is the result of the `aria-labelledby` computation.

😕 

---
I do not know how to concile the fact that WCAG both seem to call "link text" the name from content (in the sentence `shorter, repeated link text such as "read more"`) and the accessible name (in the example which passes 2.4.9 because the `aria-label` attribute is correct)…

---
Additionally, ARIA8 is sufficient for 2.4.9, meaning that `aria-label` is **not** part of the (programatically determined link) context but part of the link itself; while ARIA7 is **not** sufficient for 2.4.9, meaning that `aria-labelledby` is part of context only.

😕

Reviewer: Some more thoughts on that…
I'm still not sure whether "link text" means "text content" or "accessible name" in WCAG. But I do agree that both are an accessibility issue, hence checking whether accessible name is descriptive is a valid and useful check.

I suggest to update the rule's **name** (not just description) accordingly to make it explicit that the rule only check the accessible name.

The question of whether we need or want a rule for checking whether the text content is descriptive or not is completely independant from this PR.

- [ARIA8: Using aria-label for link purpose](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/aria/ARIA8)
- [H77: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with its enclosing list item](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H77)
- [H78: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with its enclosing paragraph](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H78)
- [H79: Identifying the purpose of a link in a data table using the link text combined with its enclosing table cell and associated table header cells](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H79)
- [H81: Identifying the purpose of a link in a nested list using link text combined with the parent list item under which the list is nested](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H81)

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

The link text describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<a href="#desc">See the description of this product.</a>

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 2

The [accessible name][] describes the purpose of the link.

```html

> <a href="#main"><img src="/test-assets/5effbb/main.png" alt="Go to the main content" /></a>

Reviewer 5: As mentioned above, this link has no visible text so it doesn't meet expectation one. Expectation 1 seems incorrect to me.

<main>
	<p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

#### Passed Example 3

The link text together with its [programmatically determined link context][] available from the text in the same sentence, describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<p>To see the description of this product <a href="#desc">click here</a>.</p>

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 4

The link text together with its [programmatically determined link context][] available from the text in the same sentence, describe the purpose of the link. The [accessible name][] also describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<p>
	<span>
		Find out what city was
		<a href="#answer" aria-label="Follow the link to discover what city was the European Capital of Culture in 1990">
			Capital of Culture in 1990
		</a>
		.
	</span>
</p>

<p id="answer">Glasgow was the European Capital of Culture in 1990.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 5

The link text describes the purpose of the link.

```html

> <span role="link" tabindex="0" onclick="document.location+='#desc';return false;">See description of the product.</span>

Reviewer 5: You don't need the `return false` bit.

	</tr>
</table>
```

#### Passed Example 8

The [accessible name][] describes the purpose of the link.

```html
<p id="instructions">Click on the arrow to go to the main content.</p>
<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" x="0" y="0">
	<a href="#main" aria-labelledby="instructions">
		<path
			style="fill:#1E201D;"
			d="M21.205,5.007c-0.429-0.444-1.143-0.444-1.587,0c-0.429,0.429-0.429,1.143,0,1.571l8.047,8.047H1.111
			C0.492,14.626,0,15.118,0,15.737c0,0.619,0.492,1.127,1.111,1.127h26.554l-8.047,8.032c-0.429,0.444-0.429,1.159,0,1.587
			c0.444,0.444,1.159,0.444,1.587,0l9.952-9.952c0.444-0.429,0.444-1.143,0-1.571L21.205,5.007z"
		/>
	</a>
</svg>

<main>
	<p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

The link text, together with the absence of [programmatically determined link context][], does not describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<a href="#desc">More</a>

<p id="desc">This product consists of several web pages.</p>
```

#### Failed Example 2

The link text, together with the absence of [programmatically determined link context][], does not describe the purpose of the link.

```html

> <div role="link" tabindex="0" onclick="document.location+='#main';return false;">More</div>

Reviewer 5: As above, don't need the `return false;`

---
id: 5effbb
name: Link in context is descriptive
rule_type: atomic
description: |
  This rule checks that all links in their context describe their purpose.
accessibility_requirements:
  wcag20:2.4.4: # Link Purpose (In Context)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
  - Language
authors:
  - Carlos Duarte
  - Marie Trudelle
  - Ramit Garg
---

## Applicability

This rule applies to any HTML or SVG element which

- has the [semantic role][] of ['link'][link] or a [semantic role][] that inherits from the ['link'][link] role; and
- is [included in the accessibility tree][]; and
- has an [accessible name][] that does not only consist of [whitespace][].

## Expectation

> The [visible text content][] of the target element, together with its [programmatically determined link context][] describe the purpose of the link.

Author: Thanks for catching this. The accessible name was previously considered in the link context.
Added a new expectation that looks at the accessible name.

<main>
	<p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

#### Failed Example 3

The link text, together with the absence of [programmatically determined link context][], does not describe the purpose of the link.

```html
<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" x="0" y="0">
	<a href="#main">
		<text x="20" y="20">
			Go
		</text>
	</a>
</svg>

<main>
	<p id="main">This is the main content.</p>
</main>
```

#### Failed Example 4

The link text does not describe the purpose of the link. The other information available on the page is not [programmatically determined link context][] because it is on a different paragraph.

```html
<p>
	The W3C held a workshop on June 9-10, 2005 at DERI Innsbruck (Austria), to gather information about potential
	standardization work on Semantics in Web Services.
</p>

<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/2005/04/FSWS/workshop-report.html">Workshop</a></p>
```

#### Failed Example 5

The link text does not describe the purpose of the link. The other information available on the page is not [programmatically determined link context][] because it is outside the list where the links are.

```html

> <h3>Ulysses</h3>

Reviewer: I'd argue that headings are parts of the programmatically determined context.
Keeping the text alone (maybe with some styling to make it look important) would be enough to make me happy 😄

Author: Agreed and updated the example.
